## Database plugin for Polaric Server

The "Polaric Server" is mainly a web based service to present (APRS) 
tracking information on maps and where the information is updated in real-
time. It is originally targeted for use by radio amateurs in voluntary search
and rescue service in Norway. It consists of a web application and a server 
program (APRS daemon). 
 
This is a _plugin_ that provides database storage using PostgreSQL (With PostGIS extension). It is 
optional and was primarily meant for online servers having sufficient memory and storage. 
It is used on aprs.no. 

It can actually be useful on more portable servers, for instance on a Raspberry PI. 


### Features

It stores APRS positions (spatiotemporal data) and APRS packets for later analysis.
It is configurable what callsigns are stored and for how long. Queries 
include movement trails, positions covered by digipeaters, etc. 

Client/user-owned data like trackers, static position objects, 
map-extents, map-layer setups, etc through a REST API. Also, the drawing tool
uses it to store features. 

It also supports replication with eventual consistency (CRDT) for some data objects. This is work in progress. 

## System requirements

Linux/Java platform (tested on Debian/Ubuntu platforms, including Raspbian Buster) with
* Java Runtime environment version 11 or later. 
* polaric-aprsd installed.

From version 2.9, Scala is no longer needed. 

## Installation and use
A deb package is available. For information on getting started on a Debian based platform please see: 
https://polaricserver.readthedocs.io/en/latest/gettingstarted.html. It has scripts that can help install and configure 
the database. It depends on PostgreSQL and PostGIS packages. 

apt-get install polaric-db-plugin

When installed for the first time, run the script 'polaric-dbsetup'
It will install database software and the PostGIS extension, it will create
the necessary tables and it will configure polaric-aprsd to use the
plugin. 

When upgrading, run the script 'polaric-dbupgrade' to make necessary updates to 
the database schema and setup. 

Please edit the plugin configuration to suit your needs: /etc/polaric-aprsd/config.d/database.ini
It is fairly self-explained. Database name is 'polaric' and is owned by a database user 'polaric'. 
Remember to run polaric-restart after installing the plugin or making changes to the config file. 
Database password is auto-generated by the setup-script.
 
You may use 'psql' to inspect and maintain the database. 
 
## Building 
You may also build it yourself. To do this, install the source code for polaric-aprsd
and make a symlink to its 'lib' subdirectory and polaric-aprsd.jar. To build a deb 
package run the command:

debuild -uc -us -b


